NodeSummit, San Francisco, CA, Wed 27 Jul 2016

Leveraging Node.js Across the IoT Landscape

Ben Sabrin, VP Sales and Strategy, NodeSource
@bsabrin

David Belo, Technical Lead, McLaren Applied Technology
@McLarenGroup

Jeremiah Lee, Web API Technical Product Owner, Fitbit
@JeremiahLee

Jeremy Schroetter, Senior Director Engineering, Qualcomm Life
@qualcommlife

Matteo Collina, Software Architect, nearForm
@matteocollina

IoT is convergence between physical and virtual worlds.
Translate into insights with benefits.
Low power devices, network connected.
Help people improve health through technology.
Take data, and help people make life changing decisions.
IoMT, Internet of Medical Things, Qualcomm.
Why Node?
Qualcomm trying to be underpinning of IoMT.
Providing services underneath.
Let Qualcomm provide connections for data provided by Node.
Evaluated other options, Node is the winner for the use cases presented with.
Where Node works really well is services.
Node is amazing for bringing multiple APIs together.
Node is resource hungry, won't run on wearables.
Node can play huge part as gateway.
Industrial IoT, lots of collaboration among companies that did not collaborate before.
When lights are on, day getting started, auto adjust heating/cooling.
Need prototypes, iterative to do this, so Node.
IoT security.
Healthcare data, HIPAA.
Qualcomm refactoring platform.
Speed and performance of Node for rapid prototyping and data transformation.
More use cases will come in healthcare.
Node security vulnerabilities not really different than Java.
Security problems boil down to OpenSSL and SSL attacks.
Managing SSL certificates adds whole new level of complexity to IoT.
Biggest problem is updating Node on IoT devices for security upgrade.
Pick most secure ciphers you can, since may not update in field for years.
Sensors and wearables versus industrial IoT.
Seeing device operations move to the edge.
Let device do sensing, send data right now, let cloud process it.
Due to battery life, unlikely to see Node run on tiny devices.
Industrial IoT, there's a gold mine there.
As a business, how to make sense of all that data.
Which npm modules do you rely on in IoT context? MQTT, Johnny-Five, gpio, etc.
For healthcare, FHIR is replacing HL7.
Data transformation modules.
New FDA attitude, don't let us get in the way of innovation.
Will continue in positive way.
Elastic, Kibana.
Node needs to integrate with scientific languages.
