NodeSummit, San Francisco, CA, Wed 27 Jul 2016

Securing Node.js Applications

Gergely Nemeth, CEO, Rising Stack
@nthgergo

Adam Baldwin, Founder, Node Security
@adam_baldwin

Guy Podjarny, Co-Founder/CEO, Snyk
@guypod

Sabon Thomas, VP Engineering, Codiscope

Security is about predictability, and maintaining that.
All about trust.
Security is everybody's job.
Developers have first responsibility.
Should be designated role, for security.
Proper gates, traceability.
Culture shift can't happen overnight.
Take one step at a time.
Automate as much as you can.
Ecosystem is greatest exposure.
Node Foundation, core team more responsive to security issues.
Security is a high priority.
Security SLA of Node is superior.
24 hour fix, 5 day embargo.
Foundation does a good job of owning the security problem.
Go from handful of owners in core, to hundreds of thousands of authors who own small piece.
Each with different security policy.
Need to communicate intent, README.md.
But developers are not security experts.
Rely on platform tooling.
Need to lower the bar, what it takes to be secure.
GitHub has a role, npm has a role.
How to fix without discovering vulnerabilities.
Collect advisories.
Work with module authors.
Big gap for newer developers.
Codiscope analyzes code, finds vulnerabilities.
Audit code.
Code reviews.
100% test coverage (giant myth, but good practice).
Need creative human in the process.
Secure yourself.
Provide minimal permissions.
We use sudo curl bash way too much.
Propagation through npm.
Myth, reach state of secure, never reach that ultimate.
Determined attackers attack value.
More attacks on npm than three years ago.
Hard to understand who is using what.
You are responsible for what you 'require'.
Do you write software?  Less concerned about security.
Do you operate software?  More concerned about security.
You need to be more secure than the next guy.
Be secure against automated attacks.
Attacker will capitalize if you don't fix issues.
Need strong input validation.
This makes Hapi better than Express.
Start documenting security concerns.
Make it visible.
Bring in an expert.

